Add initial docs page for sentinels (#27)
OpenZeppelin/defender-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/sentinel.adoc

[[sentinel]]
= Sentinel

> _The Defender Sentinel service allows you to monitor transactions for Addresses by specfying Events, Functions, and Transaction conditions and notifying via email, slack, and autotasks (more to come)._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_The Defender Sentinel service allows you to monitor transactions by defining conditions on events, functions, and transaction parameters, and notifying via email, slack, and autotasks (more to come)._
```

[[use-cases]]
== Use cases

Use a Sentinel whenever you need to know about or respond to transactions involving your smart contract.  Your Sentinel will watch every transaction send the transactions you care about to your notification methods of choice.

> * *Monitor* your *sensitive functions* like transferOwnership, pause

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Monitor* your *sensitive functions* like transferOwnership, pause, or upgrade
```

* *Alert* when transactions are failing against your smart contract
* *Respond* to transactions by executing *Autotask* logic when key events happen 
* *Integrate* with your *existing tools* through slack, email or custom *Autotask* integration
* *Know* when an unexpected volume of transactions occur

[[whats-in-an-sentinel]]
== What's in an Sentinel?

> A Sentinel watches transactions for a given address, filters those transactions by any conditions that you specify, then notifies you when those transactions occur.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Sentinel watches transactions that affect a given address, filters those transactions by any conditions that you specify, then notifies you when those transactions occur.
```

IMPORTANT: At this time, Sentinels do not monitor internal function calls.

[[specify-address]]

> === Specifying an Address

Reviewer: This feels out of context coming from the "what's in a sentinel" section. As an intro, I'd add a `== Creating a sentinel` section, explain that "creating a sentinel involves specifying the address to monitor, defining matching rules, and choosing the notification channels", and only then go into the creation process.

> * *Address*: Choose the address of either a Smart Contract or a normal key-pair address to monitor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Address*: Choose either a smart contract or an externally owned account to monitor.
```

> * *ABI*: Specify the ABI for your contract.  We will attempt auto-discovery of the ABI if it is verified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *ABI*: Specify the ABI for your contract. Defender will automatically load the ABI if the source code is verified.
```

* *Confirmation Blocks*: If you want to be notified only after a certain level of confidence that the transaction is accepted, choose a higher confirmation block level.   If you want to be notified as soon as possible and are tolerant to re-orgs, then choose *Latest* 

[[matching-rules]]
=== Matching Rules

For a Transaction to trigger a notification, it must satisfy *ALL* of the following:

> * Transaction *MUST* have a To, From, or Address (from log) that matches the configured address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Transaction *MUST* have a To, From, or an Event that matches the configured address
```

Reviewer: Also, and this is personal, I'd drop the RFC-like notation of **MUST** and similar

* If a *Transaction Condition* is specified

    ** The Transaction *MUST* match the *Transaction Condition*.

* If *Events* are selected

>     ** The Transaction *MUST* emit a selected Event and match its *Event Condition* (if any)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ** The Transaction *MUST* emit any of the selected Events and match the *Event Condition* (if any)
```

* If *Functions* are selected

>     ** The Transaction *MUST* invoke a selected Function and match its *Function Condition* (if any)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ** The Transaction *MUST* directly invoke any of the selected Functions (contract calls are not detected at the moment) and match the *Function Condition* (if any)
```

[[choose-events-and-functions]]
=== Events and Functions

Select any Events and Function calls that you wish to monitor. Selecting Events and Functions acts as an OR clause, in that if a transaction matches ANY of the selected Events or Functions, it will trigger notification.

NOTE: An ABI is required to configure Events and Function detection

> NOTE: If no Events or Functions are specified, then the Sentinel will monitor ALL transactions to or from your monitored address including those that do not involve functions or events (e.g., sending ether to your contract's address).  If Events or Functions are selected, then ONLY those that are selected are monitored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: If no Events or Functions are specified, then the Sentinel will monitor ALL transactions to or from your monitored address.
```
I wouldn't go into that much detail. Also, note that it's possible to have an event emitted when sending ether to the contract address by doing so in the [receive function](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.6.2/contracts.html#receive-ether-function).

IMPORTANT: At this time, Sentinels do not monitor internal function calls.

[[specify-conditions]]
== What are Conditions?

Conditions act as filters that allow you to narrow the transactions even further.  These are entered as expressions and offer a great deal of flexibility.  Conditions are very much like Javascript expressions.

NOTE: If you want to receive ALL transactions that involve your selected events/functions, then do not specify any conditions.

> General Syntax

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* Conditions can use *AND*, *OR*, *NOT* and *()*

* Conditions can use *==*, *&lt;*, *&gt;*, *&gt;=*, *&lt;=* to compare

* Number values can be referred to by Hex (0xabc123) or Decimal (10000000000)

* String values can only be compared via *==*

* Includes basic math operators: *+*, *-*, ***, */*, *^*

=== Transaction Conditions

IMPORTANT: If a transaction condition is specified, then a transaction MUST meet this condition in order to trigger a notification.

> NOTE: To accomodate comparisons for checksum and non-checksum addresses, expressions are case-insensitive.

Reviewer: If this applies to all conditions, I'd move this Note to the _What are Conditions_ section above. Maybe as part of the first paragraph?

Transaction Conditions can refer to the following properties

* *to* is the _to_ address for the transaction

* *from* is the _from_ address for the transaction

* *gasPrice* is the price of gas sent in the transaction

> * *gasUsed* is the amount of gas used in the transaction

Reviewer: Do we support gasLimit as well?

Author: Afraid not, because gasLimit is not a property of a transaction or receipt

* *value* is the value sent in the transaction

* *nonce* is the nonce for the specific transaction

* *status* is a derived value and can be compared with *"success"* or *"failed"*

==== Example Conditions

Transactions that are reverted

[source,jsx]
----
status == "failed"
----

Transactions excluding those from 0xd5180d374b6d1961ba24d0a4dbf26d696fda4cad

[source,jsx]
----
from != "0xd5180d374b6d1961ba24d0a4dbf26d696fda4cad"
----

Transactions that have BOTH a gasPrice higher than 50 gwei AND a gasUsed higher than 20000

[source,jsx]
----
gasPrice > 50000000000 and gasUsed > 20000
----

=== Event and Function Conditions

> Event and Function conditions further narrow the set of transactions that trigger notification.  These can refer to arguments in the signature either by name (if argument is named) or by index (e.g., $0, $1...).  The variables that are available to you are indicated in the user interface as you specify these functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Event and Function conditions further narrow the set of transactions that trigger notification.  These can refer to arguments in the signature either by name (if the argument is named) or by index (e.g. $0, $1...).  The variables that are available to you are indicated in the user interface as you specify these functions.
```

Author: Had to look this up: ` In US English, "e.g." is usually followed by a comma. It is not followed by a comma in other English-speaking countries.`

Reviewer: Interesting! Let's go with the US convention then.

==== Example Conditions

> Transactions that emit a Transfer(...) event with a value between 1 and 100 ETH (in hex)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transactions that emit a `Transfer(...)` event with a value between 1 and 100 ETH (in hex)
```

[source,jsx]
----
// Event Signature: Transfer(address to, address from, uint256 value)
value > 0xde0b6b3a7640000 and value < 0x56bc75e2d63100000 
----

> Transactions that emit a ValsEvent(...) event with an array with a first element equal to 5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transactions that emit a `ValsEvent(...)` event with an array with a first element equal to 5
```

[source,jsx]
----
// Event Signature: ValsEvent(uint256[3] vals)
vals[0] == 5
----

> Transactions that invoke a greet(...) function with an unnamed string of "hello"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transactions that invoke a `greet(...)` function with an unnamed string of "hello"
```

[source,jsx]
----
// Function Signature: greet(address, string)
$1 == "hello"
----

[[notifications]]
== Notifications

When triggered, a Sentinel can notify one or more slack webhooks, email lists, or execute an autotask.

=== Slack Configuration

> * *Name* is the name for this slack configuration.  For instance, you might name it the name of the channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Name* is the name for this slack configuration.  For instance, you might name it after the name of the channel.
```

> * *Webhook URL* is the URL from your slack management console to use for notification. 

Reviewer: Let's ellaborate here on how to set up a webhook in Slack

Author: ~ellaborate~ elaborate
